---
layout: default
title: Teaching
header: none
permalink: /teaching/csed415/2025sp
---

## CSED415: Computer Security (컴퓨터 보안)

The intended audience of this course are senior-level undergraduate students
who are interested in computer security. We will cover fundamental computer
security concepts and principles including, but not limited to software
security, systems security, network security, and cryptography. We will also
practice these concepts through hands-on lab assignments and a team project.

### ℹ️ Information
* Instructor: [Seulbae Kim](https://seulbae-security.github.io)
* TA: TBD
* Term: Spring 2025 (Feb 17, 2024 ~ June 5, 2024)
* Time: Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:00 AM ~ 3:15 PM
* Location: Room 107, Science Building II

### 🗓️ Schedule

##### Part 0: Basics and Principles
* Week 1
  * [Lec 01: Introduction]()
  * [Lec 02: The Basics]()
* Week 2
  * [Lec 03: Secure Coding]()
  * [Lec 04: Trusting Trust]()

##### Part 1: Attacks and Defenses
* Week 3
  * [Lec 05: x86 Assembly]()
  * [Lec 06: Shellcode, Buffer Overflow, and Control Flow]()
* Week 4
  * [Lec 07: Attacks and Defenses (1)]()
  * [Lec 08: Attacks and Defenses (2)]()

##### Part 2: Cryptographic Primitives and Applications
* Week 5
  * [Lec 09: Cryptography (1)]()
  * [Lec 10: Cryptography (2)]()
* Week 6
  * [Lec 11: Hash and MAC]()
  * [Lec 12: Digital Signatures and Certificates]()
* Week 7
  * [Lec 13: Secure Communication]()
  * [Lec 14: Overview for Midterm Exam]()

##### Midterm Exam and Project Proposal
* Week 8
  * Midterm Exam
* Week 9
  * [Lec 15: Midterm Exam Review]()
  * [Lec 16: Project Proposals]()

##### Part 3: Authentication and Authorization
* Week 10
  * [Lec 17: Authentication (1)]()
  * [Lec 18: Authentication (2)]()
* Week 11
  * [Lec 19: Access Control (1)]()
  * [Lec 20: Access Control (2)]()

##### Part 4: Systems and Software Security
* Week 12
  * [Lec 21: Malware]()
  * [Lec 22: Anti-malware]()
* Week 13
  * [Lec 23: Denial-of-Service and Firewall]()
  * [Lec 24: Database Security]()
* Week 14
  * [Lec 25: Fuzzing]()
  * [Lec 26: Symbolic Execution]()

##### Final Exam and Project Presentation
* Week 15
  * Lec 27: Project Presentations (1)
  * Lec 28: Project Presentations (2)
* Week 16
  * Final Exam


Disclaimer:
I referred to the course materials of the following professors for the slides:
Prof. Jong Kim (POSTECH),
Prof. Taesoo Kim (Georgia Tech),
Prof. Sangkil Cha (KAIST),
Prof. Nickolai Zeldovich (MIT),
and Prof. Reluca Ada Popa (UC Berkeley).

