---
layout: default
title: Teaching
header: none
permalink: /teaching/csed415/2026sp
---

## CSED415: Computer Security (컴퓨터 보안)

The intended audience of this course are senior-level undergraduate students
who are interested in computer security. We will cover fundamental computer
security concepts and principles including, but not limited to software
security, systems security, network security, and cryptography. We will also
practice these concepts through hands-on lab assignments and a team project.

### ℹ️ Information
* Instructor: [Seulbae Kim](https://seulbae-security.github.io)
* TA: Jangseop Choi (jangseop@postech.ac.kr), Minki Lee (leeminki@postech.ac.kr)
* Term: Spring 2026 (Feb 23, 2026 ~ June 10, 2026)
* Time: Mondays and Wednesdays, 3:30 PM ~ 4:45 PM
* Location: Room 106, Science Building II

### 🗓️ Schedule

##### Part 0: Basics and Principles
* Week 1
  * [Lec 01: Introduction](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec01.pdf)
  * [Lec 02: The Fundamentals](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec02.pdf)
* Week 2
  * [Lec 03: Secure Coding](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec03.pdf)
  * [Lec 04: On Trusting Trust](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec04.pdf)

##### Part 1: Attacks and Defenses
* Week 3
  * [Lec 05: Basics of Binary Analysis](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec05.pdf)
  * [Lec 06: Memory Safety](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec06.pdf)
* Week 4
  * [Lec 07: Attacks and Defenses](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec07.pdf)
  * [Lec 08: Rethinking Memory Safety](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec08.pdf)

##### Part 2: Cryptographic Primitives and Applications
* Week 5
  * [Lec 09: Symmetric Cryptography](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec09.pdf)
  * [Lec 10: Asymmetric Cryptography](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec10.pdf)
* Week 6
  * [Lec 11: Hash, Message Authentication Code, and Authenticated Encryption](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec11.pdf)
  * [Lec 12: Digital Signatures and Certificates](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec12.pdf)
* Week 7
  * [Lec 13: TLS and HTTPS](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec13.pdf)
  * Lec 14: Review of Lab Assignments and Team Project Guidelines

##### Midterm Exam
* Week 8
  * Midterm Exam

##### Part 3: Authentication and Authorization
* Week 9
  * [Lec 15: User Authentication (1)](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec15.pdf)
  * [Lec 16: User Authentication (2)](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec16.pdf)
* Week 10
  * [Lec 17: Web Authentication](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec17.pdf)
  * [Lec 18: CSRF and XSS](/assets/lec/csed415/2026sp/csed415-lec18.pdf)

##### Part 4: Systems and Software Security
* Week 11
  * [Lec 19: Discretionary Access Control](/#)
  * [Lec 20: Mandatory Access Control](/#)
* Week 12
  * [Lec 21: Malware](/#)
  * [Lec 22: Anti-Malware](/#)
* Week 13
  * [Lec 23: Denial-of-Service and Firewall](/#)
  * [Lec 24: Database Security](/#)
* Week 14
  * [Lec 25: Fuzzing](/#)
  * [Lec 26: Symbolic Execution](/#)

##### Final Exam and Project Presentation
* Week 15
  * Lec 27: Team Project Presentations (1)
  * (Holiday) Election Day
* Week 16
  * Lec 28: Team Project Presentations (2)
  * Final Exam


Disclaimer:
I referred to the course materials of the following professors for the slides:
Prof. Jong Kim (POSTECH),
Prof. Taesoo Kim (Georgia Tech),
Prof. Sangkil Cha (KAIST),
Prof. Nickolai Zeldovich (MIT),
and Prof. Reluca Ada Popa (UC Berkeley).

